<script type='text/javascript' src='https://d1bxh8uas1mnw7.cloudfront.net/assets/embed.js'></script>

<div style="float: right; width: 200px" class='altmetric-embed' data-badge-type='donut' data-condensed='true' data-badge-details='right' data-doi="10.1289/ehp6508"></div>

## Quantitative Structure–Activity Relationship Models for Predicting Inflammatory Potential of Metal Oxide Nanoparticles (2020)
<script type="application/ld+json">
	{	
		"@context": {
			"bs": "https://bioschemas.org/",
			"schema": "https://schema.org/",
			"citation": "schema:citation",
			"name": "schema:name",
			"url": "schema:url",
			"variableMeasured": "schema:variableMeasured"
		},
		"variableMeasured": [
			{
				"@type": "schema:PropertyValue",
				"name": "MI-R1.3-ABSTRACT-BASIC-CHEMICAL_COMPOSITION"
			},
			{
				"@type": "schema:PropertyValue",
				"name": "MI-R1.3-ABSTRACT-PHYSCHEM-SIZE"
			},
			{
				"@type": "schema:PropertyValue",
				"name": "MI-R1.3-ABSTRACT-PHYSCHEM-ZETA_POTENTIAL"
			},
			{
				"@type": "schema:PropertyValue",
				"name": "MI-R1.3-ABSTRACT-PHYSCHEM-SHAPE"
			},
			{
				"@type": "schema:PropertyValue",
				"name": "MI-R1.3-ABSTRACT-TOX-CONCENTRATION"
			}
		],
		"@type": "schema:Dataset",
		"name": "Quantitative Structure–Activity Relationship Models for Predicting Inflammatory Potential of Metal Oxide Nanoparticles",
		"url": "http://dx.doi.org/10.1289/EHP6508",
		"citation": "https://doi.org/10.1289/ehp6508",
		"@id": "10.1289/ehp6508",
		"http://purl.org/dc/terms/conformsTo": { "@type": "schema:CreativeWork", "@id": "https://bioschemas.org/profiles/Dataset/1.0-RELEASE" },
		"schema:license": "",
		"schema:creator": [
		  {
			"@type": "schema:Organization",
			"name": "RiskGONE"
		  }
		],
		"schema:datePublished": "2020-6"
	}
</script>

* Authors: Yang Huang, Xuehua Li, Shujuan Xu, Huizhen Zheng, Lili Zhang, Jingwen Chen, Huixiao Hong, Rebecca Kusko, Ruibin Li
* Journal: Environmental Health Perspectives
* Article Type: journal-article
* Dataset Type: Toxicological Datasets
* Subject: Health, Toxicology and Mutagenesis,Public Health, Environmental and Occupational Health
* Date: 2020-6
* License: []()
* URL: [http://dx.doi.org/10.1289/EHP6508](http://dx.doi.org/10.1289/EHP6508)
* DOI: 10.1289/ehp6508


## Original Study Abstract

Background:
Although substantial concerns about the inflammatory effects of engineered nanomaterial (ENM) have been raised, experimentally assessing toxicity of various ENMs is challenging and time-consuming. Alternatively, quantitative structure–activity relationship (QSAR) models have been employed to assess nanosafety. However, no previous attempt has been made to predict the inflammatory potential of ENMs.
Objectives:
By employing metal oxide nanoparticles (MeONPs) as a model ENM, we aimed to develop QSAR models for prediction of the inflammatory potential by their physicochemical properties.
Methods:
We built a comprehensive data set of 30 MeONPs to screen a proinflammatory cytokine interleukin (IL)-1 beta (IL-1β) release in THP-1 cell line. The in vitro hazard ranking was validated in mouse lungs by oropharyngeal instillation of six randomly selected MeONPs. We established QSAR models for prediction of MeONP-induced inflammatory potential via machine learning. The models were further validated against seven new MeONPs. Density functional theory (DFT) computations were exploited to decipher the key mechanisms driving inflammatory responses of MeONPs.
Results:
Seventeen out of 30 MeONPs induced excess IL-1β production in THP-1 cells. In vivo disease outcomes were highly relevant to the in vitro data. QSAR models were developed for inflammatory potential, with predictive accuracy (ACC) exceeding 90%. The models were further validated experimentally against seven independent MeONPs (ACC=86%). DFT computations and experimental results further revealed the underlying mechanisms: MeONPs with metal electronegativity lower than 1.55 and positive ζ-potential were more likely to cause lysosomal damage and inflammation.
Conclusions:
IL-1β released in THP-1 cells can be an index to rank the inflammatory potential of MeONPs. QSAR models based on IL-1β were able to predict the inflammatory potential of MeONPs. Our approach overcame the challenge of time- and labor-consuming biological experiments and allowed for computational assessment of MeONP inflammatory potential by characterization of their physicochemical properties. https://doi.org/10.1289/EHP6508


## Data Sample

|Metal oxide nanomaterials|Concentration (ug/mL)|Cell viability in THP-1 cells average (%)|
|-------------------------|---------------------|-----------------------------------------|
|Al2O3                    |0                    |100                                      |
|Al2O3                    |3,1                  |104,08                                   |
|Al2O3                    |6,2                  |100,03                                   |
|Al2O3                    |12,5                 |99,96                                    |
|Al2O3                    |25                   |102,78                                   |
|Al2O3                    |50                   |103,44                                   |
|Al2O3                    |100                  |99,88                                    |
|Al2O3                    |200                  |93,26                                    |
|Bi2O3                    |0                    |100                                      |
|Bi2O3                    |3,1                  |99,91                                    |
|Bi2O3                    |6,2                  |98,44                                    |
|Bi2O3                    |12,5                 |100,43                                   |
|Bi2O3                    |25                   |98,63                                    |
|Bi2O3                    |50                   |100,73                                   |
|Bi2O3                    |100                  |99,63                                    |
|Bi2O3                    |200                  |100,26                                   |



## Data Summary

| **Group**                    | **Count** |
| ---------------------------- | --------- |
| **\# of Toxicity Endpoints** |     242   |
| **\# of Nanomaterial types** |     30    |

